>> Melkey: Next we can quickly talk about
constants, obviously they don't change.
To use and to declare a const,
you can just use C-O-N-S-T, and
then say something like pi
equals like 3.14, all right?
Very key distinction between variable and
const,
you can't re-sign this to anything,
it's gonna yell at you.
But another cool thing is, the compiler
does not care if you have an unused const.
You can have a const and you can never
reference it again, compilers don't care.
But if it's a variable, it does, okay?
And the reason for that is actually
it's a memory allocation reason,
cuz if you have a variable that's
declared that can't change values,
it wants to make sure it knows what
the value is when it's compiling, right?
It's gonna use a string, it's unused,
it doesn't allocate any memory to it.
Or if that string is going to be
something that you assign later,
the compiler is aware of it versus
a const at the time that you write it,
the time it compiles, it's gonna know,
it's gonna allocate a certain
amount of memory for this constant.
So it doesn't care if it's unused,
cuz you can't change it, right?
It takes advantage of that concept.
With consts,
you can do a few different things.
You can do like consts and again,
you can put something like Monday = 1,
Tuesday = 2, and then Wednesday = 3.
So you have this quick way to
assign consts with integers or
any kinda value you want,
you can do format.printf.
Again, I'm not gonna print the the pie
cuz the compiler doesn't care but
even with printf,
we can do something like Monday,
we can do press module %,
Tuesday module %, Wednesday.
And then put them in
the order they come in.
You can see here the compiler gives me
a warning that we have these format
specifiers, but we haven't specified
the type associated to them.
So we can just do Monday,
Tuesday, and Wednesday, save this.
Run it, there you go, Monday, 1,
Tuesday, 2, Wednesday, 3, okay?
So const have a certain use case.
There's also typed versus untyped const,
so
you can do something like const,
typed age, oops!
Age, it's gonna be an int.
It's gonna directly specify.
You can do 25 or you can do const.
UntypedAge and just set it to 25 like so.
These are gonna be the same thing.
So you can do format print line.
You can say typedAge = untypedAge.
Save this and this should print true,
there you go.
So it doesn't matter, right?
A little bit more flexibility with consts,
constants, I should say.
With consts, there's a pretty
cool thing that we could do.
So, a lot of people when they look at
Go and they maybe come from a different
language, notice that there is
a certain lack of features, right?
Of course, it's gonna happen.
One feature that Go locks
that is one that a lot
of people would like to see are enums,
all right?
And so Go does not have a native
enum structure or type.
However, there is a keyword function
that provides a surface
level use of an enum.
So here we can do const, right?
We can open up our parentheses and
let's say we're gonna do some consts or
enums for months.
So we can say Jan and
here we can set it to an int, and
we can use the built-in keyword iota.
And I'm just gonna do plus 1.
So the plus 1 just means it's not gonna
start at 0, it's gonna start at 1,
January being the first month.
And now if I do Feb, I can just leave
it like this, I can do March and April.
And what it's gonna do is
enumerate February, March,
April as the next integer value from
the start of our iota declaration.
So if January over here,
this is going to be 1, right?
Then Feb will be 2, March will be 3,
April will be 4, and
so forth and so forth.
As long as they are declared in
the scope of our constants here through
the iota scope.
>> Speaker 2: You could admit the int,
right?
>> Melkey: Let's see, think so.
I guess you can, yeah.
Yeah, I think you can maybe
specify this definitely, but yeah.
You can omit it or not.
It's actually validate, that's a format.
Let's just do a quick printf Jan.
Let's do [INAUDIBLE].
>> Melkey: And April, apr.
Okay, we'll put Jan, Feb, March, April.
Break the line.
Yeah, you can definitely omit it.
So that's like a very of
an implementation of enums.
I kind of suspect that's
why the Go team has yet
to fully implement enums into the core
library, because of the iota.
But I do think there's a lot of different
use case of enums that go beyond just
making sure that a string representation
is represented as an integer.